.TH netdiscover "8" "November 2009" "netdiscover" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
netdiscover \- an active/passive arp reconnaissance tool.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnetdiscover\fR [-i device] [-r range | -l file | -p] [-s time] [-n
node] [-c count] [-f] [-d] [-S] [-P] [-L]
.SH DESCRIPTION
netdiscover is an active/passive arp reconnaissance tool, initially
developed to gain information about wireless networks without dhcp
servers in wardriving scenarios. It can also be used on switched
networks. Built on top of libnet and libpcap, it can passively detect
online hosts or search for them by sending arp requests.
.PP
Furthermore, it can be used to inspect your network's arp traffic, or
find network addresses using auto scan mode, which will scan for
common local networks.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-i\fR device
The network interface to sniff and inject packets. If no interface is
specified, first available will be used.

.TP
\fB\-r\fR range
Scan a given range instead of auto scan. Valid range values area for
example: 192.168.0.0/24, 192.168.0.0/16 or 192.168.0.0/8.

.TP
\fB\-l\fR file Scan ranges contained on the given file, it must
contain one range per line.

.TP
\fB\-p\fR
Enable passive mode. In passive mode, netdiscover does not send
anything, but does only sniff.

.TP
\fB\-s\fR time
Sleep given time in milliseconds between each arp request
injection. (default 1)

.TP
\fB\-c\fR count
Number of times to send each arp request. Useful for networks with
packet loss, so it will scan given times for each host.

.TP
\fB\-n\fR node
Last ip octet of the source ip used for scanning. You can change it if
the default host is already used. (allowed range: 2 to 253, default
66)

.TP
\fB\-S\fR
Enable sleep time suppression between each request. If set,
netdiscover will sleep after having scanned 255 hosts instead of
sleeping after each one. This mode was used in netdiscover 0.3 beta4
and before. Avoid this option in networks with packet loss, or in
wireless networks with low signal level. (also called hardcore mode)

.TP
\fB\-f\fR
Enable fast mode scan. This will only scan for .1, .100 and .254 on
each network. This mode is usefull while searching for ranges being
used. After you found such range you can make a specific range scan to
find online boxes.

.TP
\fB\-d\fR
Ignore configuration files at home dir, this will use defaults ranges
and ips for autoscan and fast mode. See below for information about
configuration files.

.TP
\fB\-P\fR
Produces output suitable to be redirected into a file or be parsed by
another program, instead of using interactive mode. Enabling this
option, netdiscover will stop after scanning given ranges.

.TP
\fB\-L\fR
When using -P, continue program execution after the active scan phase
to capture ARP packets passively.

.SH USAGE
If passive mode (-p), scan list (-l) or scan range (-r) options arent
enabled, netdiscover will scan for common lan addresses.
.PP
Screen control keys 

.TP
\fBh\fR
Show help screen

.TP
\fBj\fR
Scroll down (or down arrow)

.TP
\fBk\fR
Scroll up (or up arrow)

.TP
\fBa\fR
Show arp replys list

.TP
\fBr\fR
Show arp requests list

.TP
\fBq\fR
Close help screen or end application

.SH CONFIG FILES
There are 2 configuration files that netdiscover will look for, each
time it is executed, if file doesnt exist it will use default values.
You can use the -d switch to disable reading and loading configuration
files.

.TP
\fB~/.netdiscover/ranges\fR
This file contains a list of ranges (one per line) used for auto scan
mode instead of default ranges. By default netdiscover will use a list
of common ranges used on local networks.

Example:\fR
 192.168.21.0/24
 172.26.0.0/16
 10.0.0.0/8

.TP
\fB~/.netdiscover/fastips\fR
List contaning the last octect of the ips to be scanned on each
subnet, when using fast mode, by default (1,100,154).

Example:\fR
 1
 10
 25
 254

.SH AUTHOR
netdiscover was written by Jaime Penalba Estebanez.
.PP
This manual page was originally written by Nicolas Weyland, for the
Debian project. This man page has been merged into netdiscover
project, and modified from the original.
